Shoes,
phones, windows to alternate realities.
Many of our favorite products are made
in China, but designed elsewhere.
Well, that narrative's beginning to
change a bit.
Pop Mart shares rise to a record as the
CEO announces a new mini Labubu. And the
game award goes to Black Myth: Wukong.
>> [cheering]
>> What we're seeing now is an emergence
[music] of Chinese soft power into the
rest of the world. In the past, China
was creating all these low-value
products, [music] and it's very hard to
gain soft power from that. But, as you
move up the value chain, the natural
byproduct is that your soft [music]
power also increases.
>> We will continue to actually see more of
them um penetrating into various
overseas markets. As the power of China
in the global economy has increased,
it's an
>> [music]
>> opportunity for them to go and invest in
these other markets, similar to the way
that American companies [music] probably
did in post-war America.
Although, no one's saying that's going
to be smooth sailing.
A lot of the challenges for Chinese
brands, especially in the US, depends a
lot on the political uncertainties that
have been unfolding under Donald Trump.
Some are locked out of whole markets,
while others have invited a certain kind
of rhetoric. The Chinese government
[music]
has that data.
So, with Chinese brands seeming to win
over global consumers,
could they also help with something much
less [music] tangible?
Soft power doesn't get much softer than
these furry little enigmas.
All right, calm down.
These things, they're changing
perceptions one screaming child at a
time.
You've got people across the world,
across the US, on [music] TikTok
unboxing their Labubus, showing off
their hauls from everyday buyer to a
major celebrity like Lisa. Riding that
wave of hype has paid off for the brand
[music] behind the world's favorite new
furry merchandise. Pop Mart had one
store when it opened in Beijing about a
decade ago. Now, they've been able to
open across the US, not just on [music]
the coast, but in areas of the US
heartland like Ohio, and that shows just
how far its reach [music] has gone.
Since 2024, Pop Mart's annual revenue
has more than tripled. The overall sales
grew as much as 250%.
>> Address the thank you card to TikTok,
one of China's other major cultural
exports. TikTok is a [music] really
popular app in the US, and it now ranks
among the top five social media apps,
alongside the likes of YouTube,
Instagram, Facebook. The app has over a
billion users worldwide, including over
170 million per month in the US alone.
And it really brought in a whole
generation of young Americans and
introduced them to a Chinese [music]
brand probably for the first time.
This is a crowd that loves to
exclusively browse and buy online, a
habit that's already second nature to
most Chinese consumers.
This chart shows the percentage of
people who use apps to shop online and
make in-store payments.
Compared to the US, for instance, where
about 40% of all retail payments are
made using phones, Chinese consumers are
far ahead. There has been a generation
of Chinese companies that came of age
during this mobile-first
e-commerce era. Chinese companies have
really had this advantage at home of
being able to hone those strategies on
these consumers.
And now, Chinese companies are bringing
that to your morning coffee.
Luckin became China's biggest coffee
brand in 2023, surpassing Starbucks
[music] for the first time. That's in
terms of sales revenue, and since then,
its lead has only grown. But, it's also
true in terms of store numbers. As of
[music] October 2024, Luckin had three
times as many stores in China as
Starbucks.
In China, [music] it offers drinks for
as little as a dollar, and it's really
forced Starbucks to rethink its playbook
in the country.
>> [music]
>> For instance, Luckin customers can only
order through a mobile app.
That keeps staff [music] and costs down.
And now, Luckin's really bringing that
fight to the US. It's opened a number of
locations [music] in New York, and it's
introduced a few items for its fall menu
that have pumpkin spice in them. Luckin
Coffee is a great example of Chinese
companies not only bringing their
playbooks [music] to the US, but now
starting to adjust what they're doing to
accommodate US tastes.
Another place ripe for expansion is
here.
Brazil is [music] very similar to China
in a sense that are seeing growing urban
centers. They also had [music] a shift
in their demographic to more middle
class, so higher ability to spend.
[music] And more importantly, a good
part of that population are a lot
[music] younger and more willing to
actually embrace some of these digital
tools into their daily lives. The retail
apps are some of the largest and most
popular now in Brazil, specifically Temu
and Shein. And more are looking to join
the party. Meituan, the food delivery
[music] business, planning to spend a
billion dollars over the next five years
to launch Meituan in Brazil. This came
just as President Lula was visiting
Beijing and signed a deal to allow more
Chinese investment in mining, transport,
and ports.
You'll find this mix of government
backing and business expansion [music]
in other places, too.
There is a government push. They have
the backing of Beijing to actually go
overseas, because China would also like
to build its global footprint through
its companies.
In part, that's because of pressure at
home. China has been going through
factory deflation. These companies are
facing downward pressure on prices
because of intense competition. In order
to survive in China, they have to go
overseas, because that's where they can
charge higher prices, get higher profit
margins.
One of the biggest challenges that
Chinese brands are facing now is, of
course, the geopolitical uncertainties.
We're talking about tariffs,
investigations going on into certain
sectors. There is increased scrutiny on
data privacy. Take Huawei, for example.
It was blocked from the US over national
security concerns. TikTok's faced
similar scrutiny, although there has
been some [music] softening there.
I like TikTok. That's why they're
saying, "Are you saving?" We probably
[music] will save TikTok. Save TikTok!
Save TikTok!
>> Efforts to save TikTok is evidence of
just how entrenched Chinese [music]
brands have become. And this familiarity
could be shaping people's views.
TikTok is popular in youth culture, and
a Pew Research Center survey found that
people aged 18 to 34 tend to view China
more favorably than 35 to 49-year-olds
or the 50-plus crowd.
For an average user, I don't think they
see it as a Chinese app or a Chinese
retailer. They just think of it as an
app. And that's arguably what soft power
is all about. It's meant to be nebulous
and unidentifiable. [music]
But, even if it is working, it's a long
road.
That same Pew Research data shows most
of the countries surveyed still have
broadly negative perceptions of China.
So, the longevity of Chinese brands may
depend more on good business strategy
than politics. There are also a lot of
questions about sustainability and
whether a company like Pop Mart that's
been able to grow this rapidly is going
to be able to carry that forward,
[music]
or whether it's something that's going
to see a bubble that will burst.
Retention has become a big issue for
[music] Shein and Temu. Amazon has 93%
retained user rate in the US. Temu is
like in the 60% range. So, people are
pivoting on and off their app. Despite
challenges, Chinese brands are probably
here to stay, and this adds to the
nation's [music] growing global
prominence.
We will continue to actually see a world
that is incorporating more Chinese
products as well as Chinese-backed
services into their daily lives and into
their work, with or without them knowing
it. It's a natural transition of the
Chinese economy that eventually leads to
the cultivation [music]
of the soft power as well.